>> Welcome back class to the fourth module of our course on cybersecurity, risk management, and compliance here at Johns Hopkins University Engineering Programs, Course 635775. Again, this is Professor Arthur Reynolds, and I am delighted to be continuing as your chauffeur and guide on what I hope is a very stimulating and interesting discussion of some of the most timely and important topics in cyber communications and in cyber risk management. With Module 4, we focus on what is probably the most well-publicized and stimulating aspect of this course. In this module, we deal with freedom of expression, privacy of the First Amendment. You may be asking, why would a group of engineers be particularly interested in this field and why are we devoting an entire module to it? The answer is that the intellectual elites of our country and major political parties in our country and just about anybody who has an opinion about social media, and free speech, and how the cyber community affects human interactions seems to be concerned with this particular issue. In fact, as I am recording this on April 16th, 2022, there is a huge firestorm, if you will, I'm not going to call it a controversy, but a major event in that Elon Musk is attempting to buy Twitter. Even though [LAUGHTER] it is not from a strictly financial point of view, it probably doesn't make sense for him to pay what he is offering shareholders for the, shall we say, enhanced stock valuations involved. But the media pundits have opined that what Elon Musk wishes to do is return Twitter, or so that is his argument, return Twitter to its original place as a virtual public square where all points of view are welcomed and censorship is banished, or shall we say, allegations of censorship. Well, let's begin with a discussion of the First Amendment. And I'm sure all of you know this, but it's worth restating that the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States is located in the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. So we have the Bill of Rights, which was enacted shortly after the Constitutional Convention convened in Philadelphia. And the Bill of Rights contains guarantees of personal freedom, which the founding fathers or the founders, if you will, felt were necessary to ensure that we would not have to face the tyrannies that formed the basis for our separation and war of independence from the British crown. The First Amendment to the United States Constitution states that Congress shall make no law abridging freedom of speech nor freedom of religion and other guarantees. If you have not read the United States Constitution nor the Bill of Rights, in many years, I strongly recommend that you do so to see the exact verbiage, the exact language which is used in the First Amendment and the Second Amendment, and indeed all of the amendments to the bill of rights. Because many Supreme Court opinions have turned on the precise language utilized by our framers and founders centuries ago. So this is not merely an issue of conjecture or academic interests. And you will find that all of the states in the United States also incorporate a similar language in their state constitutions. For those of us who are Marylanders, I would recommend you take a look at the Maryland Declaration of Rights as part of the 1867 Maryland Constitution, which contains what I think is very clear, and powerful, and even eloquent language concerning freedom of conscience, freedom of speech, freedom of expression. You will find that, again, in the Maryland Declaration of Rights, Maryland's equivalent of the National Bill of Rights. So what exactly does the First Amendment do? What the First Amendment does is it addresses governmental suppression of freedom of speech. The thrust of the First Amendment was never intended, nor in fact, is it today, intended to restrict non-governmental actors and non-governmental organizations, private individuals from any restrictions or censorship that they may choose to engage in which, of course, as my commentary in the slides that are incorporated within this module, Module 4 made clear that this is why we have such a raging debate about the proper role of social media, and whether Facebook or Twitter or Instagram or other organizations, should they be monitoring, and moderating, and excluding, and filtering their content? Now, under Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act and under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, Internet service providers do not have legal liability at present if they are the mirror conveyors of, shall we say, highly controversial speech. They are only responsible for content that they may be creating. Nevertheless, and even though the First Amendment does not apply to private actors and non-governmental organizations, there are many calls for social media platforms to actively moderate and sensor, if you will, content which is deemed to be offensive. Of course, the argument that is made by First Amendment purists and free speech advocates is that it is precisely because of our need to tolerate offensive ideas, and offensive concepts, and offensive speech that we have a first amendment to begin with. We would need a first amendment if everybody would communicate about issues or opinions for which everyone was in agreement. So that is a very basic introduction to the Bill of Rights and the First Amendment, where the United States Constitution prohibits governmental intrusion on freedom of expression, leaving it to the private sector to ascertain if at all, they will engage in restrictions and to what extent social media has an obligation or a liability to do so. Please note that the First Amendment is not absolute. As distinguished jurists noted many years ago, United States Constitution is not a suicide act. And the First Amendment does not, for example, validate obscenity. The First Amendment does not condone defamation, which we will get to later, nor does the First Amendment permit language or actions or words which would be clearly detrimental to public health, safety or national security. The classic being the prohibition against shouting fire in a crowded movie theater. The courts, in fact, as I noted in my slides, will condone and allow restrictions on free speech, which support our efforts. >> Protect our national security secrets or our wartime mobilization and having said that, I do want to point out that I, private opinion, I've always considered Brandenburg versus Ohio, which is the governing standard of what is the, shall we say, litmus tests or outward boundary of what is an abuse of freedom of speech. I want you to take a close look at that, scrutinize what Brandenburg stands for and what case it replaced because as I read Brandenburg, so long as you are not inciting imminent physical violent actions, as long as you are engaging in imminent lawlessness or instigating violence in real-time, the United States Supreme Court says that mere expressions of some remote future likelihood of public with disorder or violence does not meet the constitutional standards. And yet, it appears that in looking at a number of judicial holdings today, as well as the pronouncements of a number of public officials and chiefs of police and members of congress etc, it appears that there are many pundits who really are not willing to afford the American people all of the wide latitude that Brandenburg contemplates. So I would ask you to take a close look at that. Let's move on to the concept very near and dear to me of academic freedom, which is deeply embedded and influenced by cyber practices. In fact, [LAUGHTER] not only am I teaching this class virtually online, of course, so the cyber revolution has allowed yours truly to teach from the luxury of my home. But not only that, the academic community, college campuses have been really a hotbed of debate and discord and dissension about what are the limitations of cyber-related free speech as well as on-campus free speech. And just to get a taste of some of this dispute, I've included within your course content for Module 4 some of the cases involving professors who have been chastised or even fired for raising controversial issues in class. If you really want to get into this further, I would recommend you visit an organization such as fire.org, which I have referenced in the slides. Another important issue is one of viewpoint discrimination where public figures, politicians, office holders basically are banning dissidence, which is to say people who don't like that public official from posting disparaging comments on their Facebook pages, for example, or on their government maintained platforms and websites. And the courts have not been terribly indulgent of public officials who use taxpayers' money to maintain a website and the public officials seeks to ban people who don't like what they say. So I guess that's the flip side of the coin for social media on its own banning certain controversial speakers. I want to bring your attention to a comment that I noted in the slides under what is known as commercial free speech. Commercial free speech is widely respected by our courts, but it is by no means as generous and magnanimous in its latitude given to speakers as is political free speech. So my point in raising this issue is to note that unless you are a tenured college professor or a government employee with tenure, or a member of the College of Cardinals in Rome, or a federal judge with lifetime tenure, vast majority of private sector working individuals in the United States are so-called at-will employees. These are workers that can be terminated with or without cause for any reason at all so long as it's not illegal. So you cannot fire an at-will employee on the basis of race, creed, color, veteran status, that sort of thing. And this varies by the way. The scope of the civil rights protections varies by states and often by counties. Some, for example, some communities protect sexual orientation. So the point that I would make is that if you find yourself as an at-will employee or someone without tenure, you may very well be disciplined or terminated for comments that you have made on your private social media accounts, let alone comments disparaging to your employer that you might've made on the employer's social media or email accounts. I remember teaching at a university a number of years ago and this was before frankly, social media exploded to the extended to today. And some of my colleagues would post very disparaging comments about some of our students on a widely disseminated university email platform, our email system. And I had to advise the department chair that this was not only pedagogically very unwise but also very myopic and stupid in criticizing students in a platform that could lead to serious repercussions. And I'm happy to say the department chair took my advice. But you don't have to look very far to find employees of various organizations such as schools and hospitals and other organizations who have been fired for their private personal opinions which they shared on their own Facebook account, for example, or a letter to the editor. And again, I certainly do not want to encourage censorship, but discretion, reflective judgment, some self-censorship and moderation is something one needs to consider. >> In this day and age, where people are easily offended, and enough said on that. Now let us move on to defamation, which is a huge issue in Cybersecurity Law simply because many people are alleging that they have been defamed through any variety of online activities, and are seeking damages in our courts. For our purposes, we are going to define defamation. And again, everything that I'm saying to you is available through the course content that I posted for this module as well as in the slides. I posted an excellent and I think very handy schematic defamation flow sheet that really clarifies the Law of Defamation. But I would remind you that we're a Federal Republic, 50 states, District of Columbia, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. So the Defamation Law in the state of Maryland might be somewhat different than it's applied in another state. It's always good to remind ourselves that even though you might think you're defamed in one jurisdiction, it might not apply in another, particularly if we're dealing with a commercial activity. So we're defining defamation, excuse me, libel and slander. We are defining libel, the written form of defamation or slander, the verbal form of defamation. We are defining it as a non-privileged injurious falsehood that the speaker of the falsehood knows or has reason to know, is untrue and for the most part, but not exclusively, causes economic injury to the plaintiff, to the victim if overheard by a third party. Now that's a run-on sentence and if I were an English professor, I would give that sentence a C plus but clearly, speaker A speaking to speaker B cannot engage in defamatory conduct if the speaker of the falsehoods is only communicating to the aggrieved party. There has to be a third party who has overheard this. And it must be a falsehood that causes some loss of compensation, money with the caveat that some defamatory statements are what are known as per se actionable where you need not have to prove economic injury for a plaintiff to be successful in court. Now remember, the plaintiff is the one bringing the charge of defamation. That is the alleged victim of a defamation. The defendant is the one who allegedly uttered this injurious falsehood as defamatory statement. So the classic example would be that someone writes an online review for a physician, and states as a matter of fact or worse writes a letter to a newspaper or comment on a community forum like next to our Huntington, which serves our community , and states that, "I am of the firm opinion and strongly believed that Dr. Smith is an incompetent physician, his licensed or her license should be pulled. This person has no business practicing medicine and this is why." If it turns out that that statement is untrue and amputate the Common Law and this is a little aside here. We have statutory made law, if you'll remember from our very first module discussion. But the law which is created by the judicial system, which is evolving over the centuries, if you will, we call that the Common Law. And the Common Law is judicial made law based on precedence. What we lawyers like to call stare decisis. And this Common Law evolves, but we're supposed to respect prior judicial holdings. Well, under the Common Law, the mirror imputation of professional incompetence and ineptitude, or for that matter, the lack of chastity in a potential marriage partner, usually a female. Under the Common Law, those were enough to satisfy the standards of per se liability, and you didn't have to prove monetary damages. So I guess what I'm trying to say is don't accuse anybody professional incompetence unless you can back it up because that is per se actionable. Now having said that, there are some absolute defenses to defamation of which truth is an absolute defense. I want to repeat that. Truth in a defamation claim is an absolute defense to any charge of slander or libel but not to a charge for invasion of privacy, which is a totally distinct theory of liability. It's a separate tort, as we call it. A tort of invasion of privacy is separate from the tort of defamation. So whereas truth is a defense to injurious falsehood. It is not a defense to an unwarranted invasion of privacy. Now I should point out that what is the boundaries of privacy is also in a state of flux, which I will get to in a moment. But for example, in Europe, the European Union is taking Internet privacy [inaudible] more seriously than historically have the courts within the United States. >> There is also the issue of whether the statement made by the famer is privileged either in an absolute or qualified way. And a qualified privilege means just that. You may have a good-faith reason to disseminate something to a third party, but the law allows it as long as it's not abused or malicious. Now, the classic case that I would want you all to take a look at is New York Times v. Sullivan. It's one of the most important cases that deals with malice and defamation. You can look up to Wikipedia article on it if nothing else to get the feel for it. But for example, if you send a report to the state regulatory agency that deals with physician misconduct or attorney misconduct or professorial misconduct. If you file a report on someone in good faith and it turns out that what you have alleged is not factually supported. You can't be sued for defamation because there is a qualified privilege for people to report information in good faith to, for example, the Maryland Agency that licenses physicians. And for that matter, as far as I know, just about any report by any citizen, any taxpayer to any state, licensing or regulatory authority, all of those reports usually occupy some qualified privilege. So you can't be sued as long as you're not acting with malice. Which of course raises the question, what is malice? And for our purposes, it is a knowing disregard for the truth or falsity of a statement is a complete indifference to whether the statement being uttered or reported is true or false or some genuine hatred or animus towards the person who you are writing about. And in fact, in my legal career actually how to represent someone who was on the receiving end of one of these. And it turned out that the report was filed by a spurned ex romantic partner who had, shall we say, had an axe to grind. And the reporting authority was able to dispose of that fairly quickly. Now you're probably saying to yourself, wait a minute, ain't I allowed to have an opinion even if the opinion is bogus or wrong? And the answer is, of course, you're allowed to have an opinion. We have a first amendment. One of the core precepts of the first amendment is the right to have an opinion. So when you fill out Yelp or TripAdvisor or gift professor Arthur Reynolds, five-stars on Rate Your Professor, opinions are certainly encouraged and allowed so long as they are not predicated on being a sincere factual account of something which occurred. You may also appreciate the fact that there is an absolute privilege, not unqualified, but an absolute privilege given to any statements made in court no matter how outlandish and insulting and also on the floors of any legislative body. So if the United States senator for the state of Maryland goes on the floor of the United States Senate and says that Arthur Reynolds is a miscreant, I wouldn't trust him to tell me the day of the week it is. Unfortunately, there's nothing I can do about that, except maybe vote against that person, or campaign against them or give money to an opponent. There are absolute privileges and you can look all this up. It's fairly easy to find information. And if I haven't said this before, the Johns Hopkins University Library System, the Sheridan Libraries system is very student-centric and very supportive and they're happy to answer all of your needs. Well, the final segment that I wish to discuss with you, again, I realize we're running a little long here, but as I said before, this is a very controversial field of cybersecurity law, has to do with the concept of privacy. And there are people that would say and I guess I'm among them that would say, because I take privacy very seriously, I will admit to that. And I'm very offended by how much individual information and privacy I have to give up in my everyday life, whether it be cookies or implanted or tracking in phones or Amazon, knowing my purchasing preferences or Netflix knowing my viewing preferences, and yet I think we would also say that it's a bargain. I'm not going to say a devil's bargain. It's bargain that we've made with one of the most transformative technological advances, disruptors that has existed since the advent of the late 20th and early 21st centuries. I don't know how we could possibly function if we strictly went back to a pre cyber communications world. Let me point out that the GDPR, which is a statute enacted by the European Parliament, provides far more stringent protections for personally protected information and personal data period than most laws that I know of at this time in the United States. Now, as I said during our first podcast for Module 1, bills are enacted monthly. So I can say that potential statutes are in a constant state of flux. But certainly, laws change on a yearly basis, on a regular basis. So if I say that the United States Jurisprudence does not replicate Europe's GDPR, that's as of April 2022, that change, for all we know, next year. >> And I would argue that the right to be forgotten is different from the right to be let alone. The right to be let alone is inherent to the right of privacy. And the right to privacy is not explicitly stated in the United States Constitution. Nowhere will you find an explicit constitutional language protecting the right of privacy, but yet, ever since Griswold v.Connecticut and Roe v.Wade, United States Supreme Court has utilized a constitutionally inferred right to privacy to underpin its approach toward reproductive freedom and even access to contraceptives and so on. And people have argued perhaps the United States does need a constitutional amendment respecting of the right to privacy. Certainly it appears the Europeans are leaning in that direction. The right to be let alone however, again, is one that I can embrace, but the right to be forgotten, which I would argue as a separately identifiable judicial theory, is one that I have some trouble with. I am the love reading history. It's my favorite form of leisure and recreation, and I really wonder if it's helpful to the future of scholars and students, law enforcement and victims and just general humanity. If people who have committed crimes, particularly awful crimes have the right to have those records conveniently obliterated because it brings shame or embarrassment to them. And reasonable minds will differ about this. Certainly, if you are an American citizen, and you have been cleared of a criminal offense. Let's say you've been in a state prison for 10 years. There's DNA evidence, you've been fully exonerated, you were cleared, you are an innocent man. You've been so declared so by the courts, it's certainly very upsetting to me that people can still go in to the web, certainly the dark web and probably the official web and find out all of the myriad accusations and allegations that have been made against someone prior to that point, whereas in Europe one would argue, hey, if I'm pardoned then all of that garbage should be eliminated. I will leave it to you to discern where to draw the line there. No problems with the right to privacy. The right to be forgotten, I think has to be handled my personal view on a on a case-by-case basis because certain events, certain people, certain things, I feel should not be forgotten unless of course, they are absolutely wrong. If someone has said something horrible about someone and it's just not true, then maybe they should be permitted, just by the way, our courts do permit. This is certainly true in our lower court system. In fact in the Maryland judicial hierarchy, the lower courts are called the Maryland District Courts. This is our misdemeanor court traffic offenses, landlord tenant. In the Maryland court system, you can ask for convictions to be expunged, which is to say officially obliterated and removed from court files. This is certainly very important for people who wish to work with classified material for the armed forces or people that want jobs as federal contractors working at NSA, or for any organization where character references and in an unblemished background and character are so important. So by all means one would want to expunge certainly low-level offenses. And I think that there's a strong social argument to be made for allowing certain low-level nonviolent offenses to be expanded so people can get on with their careers. But war criminals quite frankly bother me, but we can debate this at another time, or maybe we'll discuss it in class. But I'm giving you food for thought. Medical privacy in the United States is governed by a number of state and federal medical privacy laws, the most prominent of which is HIPAA. I do have to say that I'm at that age where how shall I put this tactfully, I'm experiencing interactions with the medical community far more than I would like, and in my interactions, I have seen [LAUGHTER] quite frankly a number of patient privacy violations and violations of HIPAA. And for those of you who don't know, the federal government as well as the health sector itself is rapidly pushing electronic health records. And some of these electronic health portals are far more efficient and accurate than others. So this is a public consumer advisory notice that you should really make sure that this cybersecurity safeguards of your medical provider are up to top standards and that your healthcare provider is engaging in risk management best practices with respect to the protection of data privacy and data confidentiality. There have been major data breaches in the last 10 years with not only regarding patient records, but also health insurance claim records. And by the careful scrutiny of health insurance claim codes, juxtaposing them with the patient's identification, you can get a very accurate picture of the medical problems and issues that people are facing, which to me is an invasion of your medical privacy. So as wonderful as electronic health records can be, or at least should be, more knows all of my doctors complain bitterly about them to be candid, that's my opinion and those of my doctors, they are going to be ever more ubiquitous. But it's up to us to make sure that they are practicing best standards. And even before HIPAA, it was a violation of the common law of privacy to disclose medical confidences to third parties without justification. And in fact, depending on the state that you're in, there are doctor-patient privileges as there are privileges between man and wife, and clergymen and penitence and so on. Well, that my friends is my very brief oration and survey on the First Amendment and freedom of speech and privacy for Module 4 of our course. I really want to urge you-all, even as just private citizens and taxpayers to stay on top of this Congress, both political parties have an enormous amount of urgent interest in this issue. I can't count the number of times Mark Zuckerberg has appeared before Congress to deflect opinions about his role as a moderator or whether there should be anti-trust violations charged against social media. Whether Jeff Bezos with Amazon is too powerful in controlling certain forms of commercial expression because of his ownership of the Washington Post, let alone Elon Musk's acquisition or possible acquisition of Twitter. This is a big issue and as always, I welcome your robust discussions in this module. As usual I also welcome any questions that you have about the course content or about the course in general, about any generic legal question that you may have that I can answer. I also want to encourage you to start thinking about your second major deliverable in this course, which will give you the freedom to pick any appellate opinion that interests you and really get into the details of irrational and justifications that the courts use to decide them. I want to wish you all well and safety and thank you so much for allowing me to have your attention for this period of time.
