>> This is Arthur Reynolds. So I want to welcome everyone to Module 4 of 635775, cybersecurity, operations, risk management law. Hope everyone is well. And I'm very pleased here at Week 6 of our course, to welcome you to what is among the more politically controversial modules that we will be discussing. And I must say that one cannot look at any current events, news, media, or any social media, or really any reporting on the world of cyber activity today without dealing with the very issues that we're going to be discussing here in Module 4. And these are namely privacy, the first amendment, the right to health care, and health care privacy, and the law of defamation and it's remedies. In fact, as I not that I want to date this introduction and crafted and stone in perpetuity but as an example, as illustrative of the controversies of the day, as I prepare this video for you, Elon Musk is in the throes of a major decision to acquire Twitter, which as you know, has been used as a platform or the sharing of a great deal of political dialogue and debate and the use of Twitter, the alleged abuses of Twitter by those who are on the platform, who abuse the platform, who are kicked off the platform. Now Mr. Musk's effort to buy Twitter and somehow transform it and reshape it. These are all really of enormous controversy and I guess and live in this class and make it a more interesting a vehicle for us to get to appreciate some of the context. Well, during Module 4, we will be defining what we mean by the constitutional protections of free expression and the First Amendment. We're going to be looking at what we mean by the right to privacy in the cyber field, in the medical field juxtaposing what we do in the United States with what is done in the European Union and the GDPR, where the Europeans have expressed a different approach towards protecting personal information and personal confidences. We are going to be looking at what very important is the concept of reasonableness in terms of expectations of privacy because we will learn and appreciate that privacy is not an absolute as our Supreme Court has stated. And in consequence, not all confidential private material is subject to ultimate protection just as not all free expression is not subject to the protection of the First Amendment. So not all speech is unlimited, not all expression and privacy is unlimited. And there's certainly will be true when we discuss defamation, which is a very important topic in the online world simply because people are using cyber means to seek to undermine the reputations of others or let say malicious light. People are using social media and a variety of cyber means to impair, degrade, and undermine the reputation of certain businesses and specific business operations that patients or customers or users may not like. So defamation, which is to say slander and libel are very timely topics and it's important that during Module 4 you have an appreciation for how these are defined, the limitations, and the burden of proof that plaintiffs have, and some of the raging debate over who can be knocked off Twitter and why. I think you'll find that the voluminous amount of course content and materials which have been posted in this module will certainly give you the flavor of much of the nuances of the First Amendment and freedom of expression and defamation. But as I said before, when I introduced this course to you, I am simply providing you illustrative materials to give you a good handle on the variety of materials. Certainly what I can do, I hope is stimulate you into even further research and study and exploration of the topics that are being raised in this and other modules. But I assure you that the course content here is very representative of the raging debates and controversies in this field. And speaking of raging debates and controversies, the discussion questions are available to you. I look forward to a robust exchange and interchange of views and opinions. I will be participating, as I said many times before. If you wish to raise your own questions, your own issues, you may do them directly in the modules. You can do them by raising a separate discussion questions in the cyber cafe. So by all means, we do not have to limit the discussion questions under review in the module simply to what I have posted. You are absolutely encouraged to raise your own questions with the class again, either directly in the modules or in the cyber cafe. Well with those words of introduction, I again want to welcome you to Module 4. I think you'll find it very timely and interesting and I look forward to your active participation. Again, this is Arthur Reynolds wishing you a very good day and serenity and good health. Thank you.
